README.md, before:

![phData Logo](phData.png "phData Logo")

# phData Machine Learning Engineer Candidate Project

phData wants the interview process to – as best as possible – reflect
the realities of working in the real world. In a typical real-world scenario,
you would be given project-based work as part of a team and will have time to
perform research to solve the assigned task. As such, phData interviews
are based on projects which emulate this workflow.

We also believe that success in a project includes communication of the
solution to stakeholders.  Once you've completed the project, you will
deliver present your solution to our team.
The context of this project mocks a real-world problem involving real estate.
When you present to us, we would like you to pretend that we real estate
professionals rather than engineers.  Once you've finished that presentation,
we will dig deeper into the technical details of the solution.

In other words, your presentation should be split into two parts,
roughly 15 minutes each:
- One part which presents the solution the client audience described
    in the prompt below.  This should be aimed at a non-technical audience,
    not engineers or scientists.
- A second part which explains technical aspects of the solution,
    which is aimed at engineers and/or scientists.

We will schedule at least an hour for this presentation, but you need not
present for a full hour – we generally ask a lot of questions.

We would like to have the opportunity to review your solution before
presenting.
Please add your project to a private GitHub repository and share the
link with our recruiter.
free at [github.com](https://github.com/).

This project is for the machine learning engineer (MLE) role.
at phData we define this role as follows:

> The MLE works in cooperation with data science teams by providing the
The MLE is often not directly involved in the data-discovery and
model-development process, though it is helpful for MLEs to have proficient
domain knowledge in this area.
See
for more discussion on these various roles.
If you are more interested in another role such as Data Science or Data
Engineering, please inform your contact you’ve been given the wrong project.

## Project Scenario

Sound Realty helps people sell homes in the Seattle area.
They currently spend too much time and effort on estimating the value of
properties.
One of their staff has heard a lot about machine learning (ML) and
has created a basic model to estimate the value of propeties.
The basic model uses only numeric variables and ignores some other attributes.
Despite the simplicity of this model, the folks at Sound are impressed
with the proof of concept and would now like to use this model to streamline
their business.
They have contracted us to help deploy that model for broader use.
Our job is to create a REST endpoint that serves up model predictions for new
data, and to provide guidance on how they could improve the model.

Sound Realty has provided a Python script (`create_model.py`) which trains the
basic model.
The data used to train the model is in the `data` directory, which includes:

- `data/kc_house_data.csv` – Data for training the model.  Each row
corresponds to a sold home.  `price` is the
- `data/zipcode_demographics.csv` – Additional demographic data from the
U.S. Census which are used as features.  This data should be joined to the
primary home sales using the `zipcode` column.
- `data/future_unseen_examples.csv` – This file contains examples of
homes to be sold in the future.  It includes all attributes from
the original home sales file, but not the `price`, `date`, or `id`.
It also does not include the demographic data.

The model developer at Sound Realty used a
[Conda environment](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/) to create
the model, which has been captured in Conda's YAML format.
Assuming Conda has been installed in your environment, you can recreate
that environment with the following:
```sh
conda env create -f conda_environment.yml
# Activate the environment.  Repeat for newly spawned shells/terminals
conda activate housing
```

Once you've created and activated the environment, you can run the script which
---

# Running with Docker

1. Make sure Docker Desktop is installed and running on your computer.
2. Open a terminal and go to your project folder:
  cd C:\Users\kcmon\anaconda_projects\mle-project-challenge-2
3. Build the Docker image:
  docker build -t house-predictor .
4. Start the Docker container:
  docker run -p 8000:8000 house-predictor
5. The API will be available at http://localhost:8000

# Example API Requests

## Predict with full data
Send a POST request to `/predict` with all required fields:
```sh
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/predict -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @data/future_unseen_examples.json
```

## Predict with minimal data
Send a POST request to `/predict-minimal` with only the minimal required fields:
```sh
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/predict-minimal -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"age": 45, "income": 75000, "zipcode": "98101"}'
```

## Example Response
You will get a JSON response like:
```json
{
  "prediction": 550000,
  "metadata": {
   "age": 45,
   "income": 75000,
   "zipcode": "98101",
   "gender": "female",
   "education": "bachelor"
   // ...other demographic info
  }
}
```

---
creates the model:
```sh
python create_model.py
```

The model artifacts will be saved in a directory called `model/` with the
following contents:

- `model/model.pkl` – The model serialized in Python Pickle format.
- `model/model_features.json` – The features required for the model to
make a prediction, in the order they were passed during training.


## Deliverables/Requirements

1. Deploy the model as an endpoint on a RESTful service which receives JSON
   POST data.
    - The inputs to this endpoint should be the columns in
    `data/future_unseen_examples.csv`.
    - The endpoint should return a JSON object
    with a prediction from the model, as well as any metadata you see as
     necessary.
    - The inputs to the endpoint **should not** include any of the demographic
    data from the `data/zipcode_demographics.csv` table.  Your service should
     add this data on the backend.
    - Consider how your solution would scale as more users call the API.
    If possible, design a solution that allows scaling up or scaling down of API
     resources without stopping the service.  You don't have to actually
     implement autoscaling, but be prepared to talk about how you would.
    - Consider how updated versions of the model will be deployed.
    If possible, develop a solution that allows new versions of the model to be
     deployed without stopping the service.
    - Bonus: the basic model only uses a subset of the columns provided in the
       house sales data.
        Create an additional API endpoint where only the required features have
        to be provided in order to get a prediction.
2. Create a test script which submits examples to the endpoint to demonstrate
its behavior.  The examples should be taken from
`data/future_unseen_examples.csv`.
This script does not have to be complicated, only needs to demonstrate
that the service works.
3. Evaluate the performance of the model.  You should start with the code
in `create_model.py` and try to figure out how well the model will generalize
to new data.  Has the model appropriately fit the dataset?

## Recommendations
- We recommend using [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) to
containerize and deploy the model.
However, feel free to use a different technology if there is one you are
more familiar with.
- In addition to Docker, you'll need to use several other components to create
a scalable REST API. Google is your friend here, do some web searching to
figure out what other components are needed to deploy a scaleable REST API
for a Python application.
- For the updated model use a traditional machine learning algorithm
(no need for deep learning). Build out an 80% solution.

## Non-Requirements

- **Completing in a specific amount of time.** Life is busy and chaotic.
We understand you will not be able to work full time on this project.
- **Running at scale.** Everything can be done on a
laptop running
[Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop), there is
no need to deploy your code to a cloud service or cluster.
- **An exact end result.** Two candidates given this assignment will find
different solutions.
Feel free to choose your own adventure as long as the base requirements are
met.

## Time management
**We cannot stress these two enough:**

  1. Build the simplest possible solution first, utilizing tools you are
    familiar with when possible.
  2. Don’t get stuck on one aspect of the project.
    Ask questions and use the internet for research.
    Focus on your core strengths.

## One More Thing
We wish you all the best as you work on this project and thank you again for
your interest in phData.
If you have any suggestions for this project or our interview process, please
**give us feedback.**
Our goal is to make the interview process a positive experience for candidates
and we are always interested in improving.

---

Commit message:

Update README.md with Docker usage instructions and add house-predictor.tar

README.md, after:



---
![phData Logo](phData.png "phData Logo")

# phData Machine Learning Engineer Candidate Project

phData wants the interview process to – as best as possible – reflect
the realities of working in the real world. In a typical real-world scenario,
you would be given project-based work as part of a team and will have time to
perform research to solve the assigned task. As such, phData interviews
are based on projects which emulate this workflow.

We also believe that success in a project includes communication of the
solution to stakeholders.  Once you've completed the project, you will
deliver present your solution to our team.
The context of this project mocks a real-world problem involving real estate.
When you present to us, we would like you to pretend that we real estate
professionals rather than engineers.  Once you've finished that presentation,
we will dig deeper into the technical details of the solution.

In other words, your presentation should be split into two parts,
roughly 15 minutes each:
- One part which presents the solution the client audience described
    in the prompt below.  This should be aimed at a non-technical audience,
    not engineers or scientists.
- A second part which explains technical aspects of the solution,
    which is aimed at engineers and/or scientists.

We will schedule at least an hour for this presentation, but you need not
present for a full hour – we generally ask a lot of questions.

We would like to have the opportunity to review your solution before
presenting.
Please add your project to a private GitHub repository and share the
link with our recruiter.
free at [github.com](https://github.com/).

This project is for the machine learning engineer (MLE) role.
at phData we define this role as follows:

> The MLE works in cooperation with data science teams by providing the
The MLE is often not directly involved in the data-discovery and
model-development process, though it is helpful for MLEs to have proficient
domain knowledge in this area.
See
for more discussion on these various roles.
If you are more interested in another role such as Data Science or Data
Engineering, please inform your contact you’ve been given the wrong project.

## Project Scenario

Sound Realty helps people sell homes in the Seattle area.
They currently spend too much time and effort on estimating the value of
properties.
One of their staff has heard a lot about machine learning (ML) and
has created a basic model to estimate the value of propeties.
The basic model uses only numeric variables and ignores some other attributes.
Despite the simplicity of this model, the folks at Sound are impressed
with the proof of concept and would now like to use this model to streamline
their business.
They have contracted us to help deploy that model for broader use.
Our job is to create a REST endpoint that serves up model predictions for new
data, and to provide guidance on how they could improve the model.

Sound Realty has provided a Python script (`create_model.py`) which trains the
basic model.
The data used to train the model is in the `data` directory, which includes:

- `data/kc_house_data.csv` – Data for training the model.  Each row
corresponds to a sold home.  `price` is the
- `data/zipcode_demographics.csv` – Additional demographic data from the
U.S. Census which are used as features.  This data should be joined to the
primary home sales using the `zipcode` column.
- `data/future_unseen_examples.csv` – This file contains examples of
homes to be sold in the future.  It includes all attributes from
the original home sales file, but not the `price`, `date`, or `id`.
It also does not include the demographic data.

The model developer at Sound Realty used a
[Conda environment](https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/) to create
the model, which has been captured in Conda's YAML format.
Assuming Conda has been installed in your environment, you can recreate
that environment with the following:
```sh
conda env create -f conda_environment.yml
# Activate the environment.  Repeat for newly spawned shells/terminals
conda activate housing
```

Once you've created and activated the environment, you can run the script which
---

# Running with Docker

1. Make sure Docker Desktop is installed and running on your computer.
2. Open a terminal and go to your project folder:
  cd C:\Users\kcmon\anaconda_projects\mle-project-challenge-2
3. Make sure Docker Desktop is installed and running.
4. Open a terminal and go to the folder with `house-predictor.tar`.
5. Load the image:
  docker load -i house-predictor.tar
6. Start the Docker container:
  docker run -p 8000:8000 house-predictor
7. The API will be available at http://localhost:8000

# Example API Requests

## Predict with full data
Send a POST request to `/predict` with all required fields:
```sh
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/predict -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @data/future_unseen_examples.json
```

## Predict with minimal data
Send a POST request to `/predict-minimal` with only the minimal required fields:
```sh
curl -X POST http://localhost:8000/predict-minimal -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"age": 45, "income": 75000, "zipcode": "98101"}'
```

## Example Response
You will get a JSON response like:
```json
{
  "prediction": 550000,
  "metadata": {
   "age": 45,
   "income": 75000,
   "zipcode": "98101",
   "gender": "female",
   "education": "bachelor"
   // ...other demographic info
  }
}
```

---
creates the model:
```sh
python create_model.py
```

The model artifacts will be saved in a directory called `model/` with the
following contents:

- `model/model.pkl` – The model serialized in Python Pickle format.
- `model/model_features.json` – The features required for the model to
make a prediction, in the order they were passed during training.


## Deliverables/Requirements

1. Deploy the model as an endpoint on a RESTful service which receives JSON
   POST data.
    - The inputs to this endpoint should be the columns in
    `data/future_unseen_examples.csv`.
    - The endpoint should return a JSON object
    with a prediction from the model, as well as any metadata you see as
     necessary.
    - The inputs to the endpoint **should not** include any of the demographic
    data from the `data/zipcode_demographics.csv` table.  Your service should
     add this data on the backend.
    - Consider how your solution would scale as more users call the API.
    If possible, design a solution that allows scaling up or scaling down of API
     resources without stopping the service.  You don't have to actually
     implement autoscaling, but be prepared to talk about how you would.
    - Consider how updated versions of the model will be deployed.
    If possible, develop a solution that allows new versions of the model to be
     deployed without stopping the service.
    - Bonus: the basic model only uses a subset of the columns provided in the
       house sales data.
        Create an additional API endpoint where only the required features have
        to be provided in order to get a prediction.
2. Create a test script which submits examples to the endpoint to demonstrate
its behavior.  The examples should be taken from
`data/future_unseen_examples.csv`.
This script does not have to be complicated, only needs to demonstrate
that the service works.
3. Evaluate the performance of the model.  You should start with the code
in `create_model.py` and try to figure out how well the model will generalize
to new data.  Has the model appropriately fit the dataset?

## Recommendations
- We recommend using [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) to
containerize and deploy the model.
However, feel free to use a different technology if there is one you are
more familiar with.
- In addition to Docker, you'll need to use several other components to create
a scalable REST API. Google is your friend here, do some web searching to
figure out what other components are needed to deploy a scaleable REST API
for a Python application.
- For the updated model use a traditional machine learning algorithm
(no need for deep learning). Build out an 80% solution.

## Non-Requirements

- **Completing in a specific amount of time.** Life is busy and chaotic.
We understand you will not be able to work full time on this project.
- **Running at scale.** Everything can be done on a
laptop running
[Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop), there is
no need to deploy your code to a cloud service or cluster.
- **An exact end result.** Two candidates given this assignment will find
different solutions.
Feel free to choose your own adventure as long as the base requirements are
met.

## Time management
**We cannot stress these two enough:**

  1. Build the simplest possible solution first, utilizing tools you are
    familiar with when possible.
  2. Don’t get stuck on one aspect of the project.
    Ask questions and use the internet for research.
    Focus on your core strengths.

## One More Thing
We wish you all the best as you work on this project and thank you again for
your interest in phData.
If you have any suggestions for this project or our interview process, please
**give us feedback.**
Our goal is to make the interview process a positive experience for candidates
and we are always interested in improving.

---
